# SmartCapture: Image Text Extraction & Analysis

## Overview
SmartCapture is a macOS Quick Action automation tool that captures a selected screen area, performs OCR (Optical Character Recognition) to extract text from the image, and then processes the text using OpenAI's GPT-3.5-turbo model or GPT-4. The actionable insights or answers generated by the AI are then displayed in a text file, creating an end-to-end workflow from image capture to insightful analysis. The bash script can be bound to the MacOS keyboard (e.g. cmd + shift + m) to generate a snipping tool that directly selects the desired text and produces a GPT response which automatically opens on a textbox.

## Setup
To use SmartCapture, follow these steps to set up the environment and dependencies on your Mac:

### Prerequisites
- macOS with Automator.
- Python 3 installed and accessible within a Conda environment.
- Tesseract OCR installed (`brew install tesseract` using Homebrew).
- An OpenAI API key with access to the GPT-3.5-turbo model.

### Step 1: Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/PanosKolyvakis/SmartCapture-Image-Text-Extraction-Analysis
cd SmartCapture-Image-Text-Extraction-Analysis
```

### Step 2: Install Python Dependencies
Install the required Python dependencies using the provided requirements.txt file:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
### Step 3: Set the OpenAI API Key
Set your OpenAI API key as an environment variable on your Mac for security:

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY='your-api-key-here'
```
For a permanent setup, add this line to your ~/.zshrc or ~/.bash_profile and run source on the respective file or restart your terminal.

### Step 4: Automator Service
Save the provided Automator workflow as a Quick Action on your Mac.

### Step 5: Keyboard Shortcut
Bind the Quick Action to a keyboard shortcut in System Preferences:

Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts.
Select Services from the sidebar and find your saved Quick Action.
Add a Shortcut by clicking on none and then pressing your desired key combination.


